# Spiropredict: Lung Function Spirometry Calculator

This Python package provides computation functions for healthy lung function spirometry measurements according to the Global Lung Initiative 2022 guidelines and reference equations. Newer ethnicity-agnostic reference equations are used, following best-practice guidelines by the American Thoracic Society. It's designed to help healthcare researchers compute key spirometry values such as FEV1, FVC, and FEV1/FVC ratio, along with their z-scores, for study participants. 

# Features

Compute predicted FEV1 (Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 second)
    
Compute predicted FVC (Forced Vital Capacity)
    
Compute predicted FEV1/FVC ratio

Calculate z-scores for FEV1, FVC, and FEV1/FVC

Error handling for out-of-range inputs and missing data

# Usage

Import and initialize the Calculator class:

  from spirometry_calculator import Calculator

  calc = Calculator(file_path="path/to/lookup_table.csv")  # Replace with the correct file path

### Computing Spirometry Values

Example of computing FEV1:

  fev1 = calc.predict_fev1(male=1, age=30, height=170)
  print("Predicted FEV1:", fev1)

### Calculating Z-Scores

Example of calculating z-score for FEV1:

  zscore_fev1 = calc.zscore_fev1(male=1, age=30, height=170, measured_fev1=2.5)
  print("FEV1 Z-Score:", zscore_fev1)

# Source of Equations

The equations used in this software are based on the following study by the Global Lung Initiative:

Bowerman, C., Bhakta, N. R., Brazzale, D., Cooper, B. R., Cooper, J., Gochicoa-Rangel, L., Haynes, J., Kaminsky, D. A., Lan, L. T. T., Masekela, R., McCormack, M. C., et al. (2022). A Race-neutral Approach to the Interpretation of Lung Function Measurements. American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, 207(6). https://doi.org/10.1164/rccm.202205-0963OC. PubMed: 36383197

# Contributing

Contributions to this project are welcome. Please fork the repository and submit a pull request.
License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

# Contact

For any inquiries or issues, please open an issue on the GitHub repository.

# Disclaimer

For research use only. This software is only indended for the statistical analysis of epidemiological/public health datasets.

This software is provided for research and informational purposes only and is not intended for clinical or diagnostic use. The calculations and predictions generated by this tool are based on statistical models and should not be used as the basis for any clinical decision-making. While the software is developed with care, the creators of this software do not claim any clinical validity or liability for its use in clinical/diagnostic settings.
